# OMF Samples specific to the PI System back end

The samples in this repository illustrate OMF features that are specific to the PI System back end. The main such feature is the support for "metadata," which is sent by OMF applications to the OMF ingress endpoint, and stored in PI Asset Framework Server.  
The metadata might represent customer assets (such as plants, machines, devices, data I/O points, and so on) as PI Asset Framework "reference models". The model is a tree-like structure of elements and their associated attributes, which may store their values as time-series data events in PI Data Archive points.  
There are a few limitations you should be aware of, which might prevent successful execution of OMF samples:  
1.	The PI System back end does not support compound indexing. You can specify only one OMF type property with the keyword "isindex" set to "true". For OMF types with keyword "classification" set to "dynamic", the "isindex" property must be of type "string" and format "date-time", representing timestamp for a data stream.  
2.	The PI System back end does not support nested and array properties of type "object". For more information about writing OMF applications for the PI System back end, please see [OMF Developer Companion Guide.](http://omf-companion-docs.osisoft.com)  
Each of the samples in this repository represents a stand-alone OMF application. Before running the application, you must register the application with PI Data Collection Manager to obtain a "Producer Token" and "Relay Ingress URL," after which you update the appropriate application configuration setting. For more information, see [PI Connector Administration Guide](https://techsupport.osisoft.com/Downloads/File/40489fc5-e515-4669-b185-8866a9f9f616), and readme file for the sample.  
The samples are divided in two sub-groups:  
- Tutorials – These samples are platform and programming language agnostic, and show common OMF version 1.0 functionality that is specific to the PI System back end.  
- Community Samples. These samples are provided to us by you - our growing community of developers interested in OSIsoft Messaging Format data ingress technologies. Thank you for your interest and contributions!
